Create a custom model guide (#15489)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/create_a_model.mdx

the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Create a model manually

In the `AutoClass` [tutorial](autoclass_tutorial), you loaded a model by allowing the `AutoClass` to automatically infer the architecture and download pretrained configuration and weights. While we generally recommend using an `AutoClass` to produce checkpoint-agnostic code, users who want more control specific model parameters can manually create a 🤗 Transformers model. This could be particularly useful for anyone who is interested in studying, training or experimenting with a 🤗 Transformers model. In this guide, dive deeper into creating a model without an `AutoClass`. Learn how to:

- Load and customize a model configuration.
- Create a model.
- Create a slow and fast tokenizer.
- Create a feature extractor.
- Create a processor.

## Configuration

> A [configuration](main_classes/configuration) refers to a model's specific attributes. Each model configuration has different attributes, but all models have the `hidden_size`, `num_attention_heads`, `num_hidden_layers` and `vocab_size` (if it is a text model) attributes in common. These attributes specify the number of attention heads or hidden layers a model should be constructed with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [configuration](main_classes/configuration) refers to a model's specific attributes. Each model configuration has different attributes, for instance all NLP models have the `hidden_size`, `num_attention_heads`, `num_hidden_layers` and `vocab_size` attributes in common. These attributes specify the number of attention heads or hidden layers a model should be constructed with.
```

> Get a closer look at [DistilBert](model_doc/distilbert) by accessing [`DistilBertConfig`] to inspect it's attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get a closer look at [DistilBERT](model_doc/distilbert) by accessing [`DistilBertConfig`] to inspect it's attributes:
```

  "attention_dropout": 0.1,
  "dim": 768,
  "dropout": 0.1,
  "hidden_dim": 3072,
  "initializer_range": 0.02,
  "max_position_embeddings": 512,
  "model_type": "distilbert",
  "n_heads": 12,
  "n_layers": 6,
  "pad_token_id": 0,
  "qa_dropout": 0.1,
  "seq_classif_dropout": 0.2,
  "sinusoidal_pos_embds": false,
  "transformers_version": "4.16.2",
  "vocab_size": 30522
}
```

This displays all the default attributes used to build a [`DistilBertModel`]. All the attributes are customizable, creating room for experimentation. For example, if you want to:

- Try a different activation function.
- Change the dropout ratio for the attention probabilities.

```py
>>> my_config = DistilBertConfig(activation="relu", attention_dropout=0.4)
>>> print(my_config)
DistilBertConfig {
  "activation": "relu",
  "attention_dropout": 0.4,
  "dim": 768,
  "dropout": 0.1,
  "hidden_dim": 3072,
  "initializer_range": 0.02,
  "max_position_embeddings": 512,
  "model_type": "distilbert",
  "n_heads": 12,
  "n_layers": 6,
  "pad_token_id": 0,
  "qa_dropout": 0.1,
  "seq_classif_dropout": 0.2,
  "sinusoidal_pos_embds": false,
  "transformers_version": "4.16.2",
  "vocab_size": 30522
}

> ```

Reviewer: You should mention that you can change all those attributes while loading a pretrained `config` by passing them to the `from_pretrained` call.

Load your custom configuration attributes into the model:

```py
>>> from transformers import DistilBertModel

>>> my_config = DistilBertConfig.from_pretrained("./your_model_save_path/my_config.json")
>>> model = DistilBertModel(my_config)
===PT-TF-SPLIT===
>>> from transformers import TFDistilBertModel

>>> my_config = DistilBertConfig.from_pretrained("./your_model_save_path/my_config.json")
>>> tf_model = TFDistilBertModel(my_config)
```

This creates a model with random values instead of pretrained weights. You won't be able to use this model for anything useful yet until you train it. Training is a costly and time-consuming process and it is generally better to use a pretrained model. With a pretrained model, you can get better results faster while only using a fraction of the resources required for training.

> Create a pretrained model with [`~transformers.PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained`]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a pretrained model with [`~PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained`]:
```

===PT-TF-SPLIT===
>>> from transformers import TFDistilBertForSequenceClassification

>>> tf_model = TFDistilBertForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased")
```

You can easily reuse the checkpoint for another task by switching to another model head. To handle a question answering task, you would load [`DistilBertForQuestionAnswering`]. The question answering head is similar to the sequence classification head, except it is a linear layer on top of the hidden states output.

```py
>>> from transformers import DistilBertForQuestionAnswering

>>> model = DistilBertForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased")
===PT-TF-SPLIT===
>>> from transformers import TFDistilBertForQuestionAnswering

>>> tf_model = TFDistilBertForQuestionAnswering.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased")
```

## Tokenizer

The last class you need before you use a model for textual data is the [tokenizer](main_classes/tokenizer). A tokenizer prepares the model input by converting raw text to tensors. There are two types of tokenizers you can use with 🤗 Transformers:

- [`PreTrainedTokenizer`]: a Python implementation of a tokenizer.

> - [`PreTrainedTokenizerFast`]: a tokenizer from our Rust-based [🤗 Tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/docs/tokenizers/python/latest/) library. This tokenizer type is significantly faster - especially during batch tokenization - due to it's Rust implementation. The fast tokenizer also offers additional methods like *offset mapping* which maps the original words or characters to their tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`PreTrainedTokenizerFast`]: a tokenizer from our Rust-based [🤗 Tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/docs/tokenizers/python/latest/) library. This tokenizer type is significantly faster - especially during batch tokenization - due to it's Rust implementation. The fast tokenizer also offers additional methods like *offset mapping* which maps the tokens to their original words or characters.
```

Both tokenizers support common methods such as encoding and decoding, adding new tokens, and managing special tokens.

<Tip warning={true}>

Not every model supports a fast tokenizer. Take a look at this [table](index#supported-frameworks) to check if a model has fast tokenizer support.

</Tip>

If you trained your own tokenizer, you can create a tokenizer from your *vocabulary* file:

```py
>>> from transformers import DistilBertTokenizerFast

>>> fast_tokenizer = DistilBertTokenizerFast.from_pretrained(vocab_file="my_vocab_file.txt")
```

> As with a model, it is generally better and faster to use a pretrained model's vocabulary. Create a [`~transformers.PreTrainedTokenizer.from_pretrained`]:

Reviewer: That's not completely correct. You have to use a pretrained model's vocabulary if you are using a pretrained model otherwise it will receive inputs that don't make sense.

Also "Create a [`~transformers.PreTrainedTokenizer.from_pretrained`]" will be rendered as "Create a `from_pretrained()` which does not make sense.

```py
>>> from transformers import DistilBertTokenizer

>>> slow_tokenizer = DistilBertTokenizer.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased")
```

> Create a [`~transformers.PreTrainedTokenizerFast.from_pretrained`]:

Reviewer: As above, the sentence does not make any sense here.

```py
>>> from transformers import DistilBertTokenizerFast

>>> fast_tokenizer = DistilBertTokenizerFast.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased")
```

<Tip>

An [`AutoTokenizer`] will try to load a fast tokenizer by default.

</Tip>

## Feature Extractor

> A feature extractor processes audio or image inputs. It can inherit from a base [`FeatureExtractionMixin`] class, an [`ImageFeatureExtractionMixin`] class for processing image features, or a [`SequenceFeatureExtractor`] class for processing audio inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A feature extractor processes audio or image inputs. It inherits from the base [`FeatureExtractionMixin`] class, and may inherit from the [`ImageFeatureExtractionMixin`] class for processing image features, or the [`SequenceFeatureExtractor`] class for processing audio inputs.
```
